Ipa interface overview (#1)
KevinUTAT/oneAPI-samples_wenkaixu_fork: DirectProgramming/C++SYCL_FPGA/Tutorials/Features/ip_authoring_interfaces_overview/Readme.md

| Time to complete     | 60 minutes
| Category             | Getting Started

## Prerequisites

| Optimized for        | Description
|:---                  |:---
| OS                   | Ubuntu* 18.04/20.04 <br> RHEL*/CentOS* 8 <br> SUSE* 15 <br> Windows* 10
| Hardware             | Intel® Agilex® 7, Arria® 10, and Stratix® 10 FPGAs
| Software             | Intel® oneAPI DPC++/C++ Compiler

> **Note**: Even though the Intel® oneAPI DPC++/C++ Compiler is enough to compile for emulation, generating reports and generating RTL, there are extra software requirements for the simulation flow and FPGA compiles.
>
> For using the simulator flow, Intel® Quartus® Prime Pro Edition and one of the following simulators must be installed and accessible through your PATH:
> - Questa*-Intel® FPGA Edition
> - Questa*-Intel® FPGA Starter Edition
> - ModelSim® SE
>
> When using the hardware compile flow, Intel® Quartus® Prime Pro Edition must be installed and accessible through your PATH.

> **Warning**: Make sure you add the device files associated with the FPGA that you are targeting to your Intel® Quartus® Prime installation.

This sample is part of the FPGA code samples.

> It is categorized as a Tier 1 sample that helps you getting started.

Reviewer: I dont see the changes to add this sample to the listing of tier 1 sample in FPGA top-level README.md

Did you missed that out?

Author: I am guessing this sample count as tier 2 since its talking about features of IPA

```mermaid
flowchart LR
   tier1("Tier 1: Get Started")
   tier2("Tier 2: Explore the Fundamentals")
   tier3("Tier 3: Explore the Advanced Techniques")
   tier4("Tier 4: Explore the Reference Designs")

   tier1 --> tier2 --> tier3 --> tier4

   style tier1 fill:#f96,stroke:#333,stroke-width:1px,color:#fff
   style tier2 fill:#0071c1,stroke:#0071c1,stroke-width:1px,color:#fff
   style tier3 fill:#0071c1,stroke:#0071c1,stroke-width:1px,color:#fff
   style tier4 fill:#0071c1,stroke:#0071c1,stroke-width:1px,color:#fff
```

Find more information about how to navigate this part of the code samples in the [FPGA top-level README.md](/DirectProgramming/C++SYCL_FPGA/README.md).
You can also find more information about [troubleshooting build errors](/DirectProgramming/C++SYCL_FPGA/README.md#troubleshooting), [running the sample on the Intel® DevCloud](/DirectProgramming/C++SYCL_FPGA/README.md#build-and-run-the-samples-on-intel-devcloud-optional), [using Visual Studio Code with the code samples](/DirectProgramming/C++SYCL_FPGA/README.md#use-visual-studio-code-vs-code-optional), [links to selected documentation](/DirectProgramming/C++SYCL_FPGA/README.md#documentation), and more.

> ## Invocation Interface

Reviewer: there is another tutorial that also explain about invocation interface under path DirectProgramming/C++SYCL_FPGA/Tutorials/Features/experimental/invocation_interfaces/

Should we point as a link/reference to that tutorial?

Author: I can reference it in the handshake-control example. Assuming it is going to be updated using kernel properties

![](assets/invocation_streaming.svg)

The streaming handshaking follows the Avalon Streaming (ST) protocol. The IP kernel consumes the arguments on the clock cycle that the `start` and `ready_out` signals are asserted. The IP component kernel invocation is finished on the clock cycle that the `done` and `ready_in` signals are asserted.

For detail on how to invoke a streaming invocation interface, go to [handshake-control](handshake-control)

## Data Interface
The data interfaces allow data to enter and leave your component's data path. There are three kinds of data interface:

1. Memory-mapped host interface
2. Streaming interface
3. Memory-mapped agent (CSR)

### Memory-Mapped Host
When your data resides in an off-kernel memory (for example: global memory or off-chip DRAM, or an on-chip block RAM) you can use a memory-mapped host data interface to communicate with it. Memory-mapped host  interfaces are inferred by default for all pointer members in oneAPI kernels, as you may observe in the [Naive Design](naive).

![](assets/data_mm_host.svg)

> You can customize this interface by explicitly declare interfaces with type `annotated_arg`. See [mm-host](mm-host/) part for an example of how to do this. For more customization for Memory-mapped host interfaces, goto this dedicated [mmhost](https://github.com/oneapi-src/oneAPI-samples/tree/master/DirectProgramming/C%2B%2BSYCL_FPGA/Tutorials/Features/experimental/mmhost) code sample.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can customize this interface by explicitly declaring interfaces with the `annotated_arg` type. See the [mm-host](mm-host/) part of this tutorial for an example of how to do this. For more information on the customization of Memory-mapped host interfaces, see this dedicated [mmhost](https://github.com/oneapi-src/oneAPI-samples/tree/master/DirectProgramming/C%2B%2BSYCL_FPGA/Tutorials/Features/experimental/mmhost) code sample.
```

### Stream (Pipe)
You may also choose to stream data into/out of your kernel using pipes. Pipes are a first-in first-out (FIFO) buffer construct that provide links between elements of a design. The Intel® oneAPI DPC++/C++ Compiler provides host pipes for host-kernel streaming and inter-kernel pipes for kernel-kernel streaming. The [host-pipes](host-pipes/) example demonstrates how to use host pipes to read and write data through an Avalon streaming interface that can be connected to other IP components in an FPGA design. 

![](assets/data_streaming.svg)

### Memory-Mapped Agent (Control/Status Register)
You may wish to register your data in a memory-mapped register space.

![](assets/data_mm_agent.svg)

There are two ways you can do this:

> - Use (non-pointer)members of your functor. This is the default way to get data into your kernel as demonstrated in the [Naive Design](naive).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Use (non-pointer) members of your functor. This is the default way to get data into your kernel as demonstrated in the [Naive Design](naive).
```

> - Use host pipes configured to use the `sycl::ext::intel::experimental::protocol_avalon_mm` as protocol.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Use host pipes configured to use the `sycl::ext::intel::experimental::protocol_avalon_mm` protocol.
```

oneAPI kernels do not have return types, so you must use one of the three data interfaces to pass output data. If you would like to store your output in the CSR for a memory-mapped host device to access (as shown in the graphic above), please review the [csr-pipes](csr-pipes/) example design.

## Sample Structure
There are 5 different example designs in this sample, all of which implement a simple vector addition. You can compare the C++ source code for each of these designs.

> 1. [Naive](naive/) This simple vector add implementation is similar to the one presented in the [fpga_compile](LINK PLEASE) code sample. It demonstrates a kernel that uses a register-mapped invocation interface, and a single shared memory-mapped host data interface. This is the only design that can support the full-system compilation flow, since the other designs implement interface customizations that are not supported by any BSP.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
1. [Naive](naive/) This simple vector add implementation is similar to the one presented in the [fpga_compile](https://github.com/oneapi-src/oneAPI-samples/tree/master/DirectProgramming/C%2B%2BSYCL_FPGA/Tutorials/GettingStarted/fpga_compile) code sample. It demonstrates a kernel that uses a register-mapped invocation interface, and a single shared memory-mapped host data interface. This is the only design that can support the full-system compilation flow, since the other designs implement interface customizations that are not supported by any BSP.
```

Author: good catch

2. [Streaming invocation](handshake-control/) This implementation uses a streaming invocation interface and conduits to pass the input pointer arguments instead of the CSR. It uses a single, shared memory-mapped host data interface.
3. [Customized memory-mapped host data interface](mm-host/) This implementation uses a register-mapped invocation interface, and demonstrates how to use `annotated_arg` to customize the memory-mapped host data interface.
4. [Streaming Data (host pipes)](host-pipes/) This implementation uses a register-mapped invocation interface, and demonstrates how to use host pipes to configure a streaming data interface.
5. [CSR Data](csr-pipes/) This implementation uses a register-mapped invocation interface, and demonstrates how to use host pipes to configure a streaming data interface, and how to return output into the CSR using the `protocol_avalon_mm` pipe protocol.

> All designs supports four compilation options: Emulator, Simulator, Optimization Report, FPGA Hardware. For details on the different compilation options, see [fpga_compile](https://github.com/oneapi-src/oneAPI-samples/tree/master/DirectProgramming/C%2B%2BSYCL_FPGA/Tutorials/GettingStarted/fpga_compile) tutorial.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
All designs support four compilation options: Emulator, Simulator, Optimization Report, and FPGA Hardware. For details on the different compilation options, the see [fpga_compile](https://github.com/oneapi-src/oneAPI-samples/tree/master/DirectProgramming/C%2B%2BSYCL_FPGA/Tutorials/GettingStarted/fpga_compile) tutorial.
```

> For detailed instructions to build and run each designs, goto the documentation under each design directories.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For detailed instructions on how build and run each design, see the documentation under each design's directory.
```

# IP Authoring Interfaces Overview

> One of the most powerful features of IP Authoring is that you can configure how your FPGA IP produced with the Intel® oneAPI DPC++/C++ Compiler interacts with the rest of your custom FPGA design. When targeting the full-stack flow (e.g. using buffers/accessors) the Intel® oneAPI DPC++/C++ Compiler will infer a set of interfaces for you that fits with your selected BSP. When you create FPGA IP with the Intel® oneAPI DPC++/C++ Compiler, you can customize the interfaces for your IP component, since IP components are not constrained by specific attach points in a specific BSP.

Reviewer 4: This paragraph should be moved to a section after "Prerequisites".
The idea here is to have a 1 to 2 sentence summary of what this sample showcases.
e.g. This sample presents different interfaces that can be generated on IPs using the IP Authoring flow.

Remark:  "When targeting the full-stack flow (e.g. using buffers/accessors)" using buffers and accessors is not a FS only feature right? One could use buffers/accessors in a IP I think ( to be checked).
In any case, this is not the determining factor for FS. Maybe it would be better to say: "When targeting the full-stack flow (targeting a BSP)"

> One of the most powerful features of IP Authoring is that you can configure how your FPGA IP produced with the Intel® oneAPI DPC++/C++ Compiler interacts with the rest of your custom FPGA design. When targeting the full-stack flow (e.g. using buffers/accessors) the Intel® oneAPI DPC++/C++ Compiler will infer a set of interfaces for you that fits with your selected BSP. When you create FPGA IP with the Intel® oneAPI DPC++/C++ Compiler, you can customize the interfaces for your IP component, since IP components are not constrained by specific attach points in a specific BSP.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
When you create an FPGA multiarchitecture binary for an accelerator card equipped with a board support package (BSP), the Intel® oneAPI DPC++/C++ Compiler will infer a set of interfaces for you that fits your selected BSP. When you create FPGA IP with the Intel® oneAPI DPC++/C++ Compiler, you can customize the interfaces for your IP component, since IP components are not constrained by specific attach points in a specific BSP.
```

shorten

| Area                 | Description
|:---                  |:---
| What you will learn  | The basics of different invocation interfaces and data interfaces for FPGA IP produced with the Intel® oneAPI DPC++/C++ Compiler, and how to implement and configure these interfaces
| Time to complete     | 60 minutes
| Category             | Concepts and Functionality

## Prerequisites

| Optimized for        | Description
|:---                  |:---

> | OS                   | Ubuntu* 18.04/20.04 <br> RHEL*/CentOS* 8 <br> SUSE* 15 <br> Windows* 10

Reviewer 5: according to this, we support Ubuntu 22.04 as well. @yuguen-intel do we need to update the OS support list? perhaps it's not useful to include specific OSes in the code samples, as they get out-dated, and we can just link to the oneAPI documentation?

https://www.intel.com/content/www/us/en/developer/articles/system-requirements/intel-oneapi-base-toolkit-system-requirements.html#inpage-nav-2-undefined-undefined

https://www.intel.com/content/www/us/en/developer/articles/system-requirements/intel-oneapi-dpcpp-system-requirements.html

Reviewer 4: We may indeed need to update this table. It was agreed with the code sample committee, so I'll need to check what we can do here.

> | Hardware             | Intel® Agilex® 7, Arria® 10, and Stratix® 10 FPGAs

Reviewer 5: this code sample should also work with the Cyclone V FPGAs and Cyclone 10 GX FPGAs

https://www.intel.com/content/www/us/en/developer/articles/system-requirements/intel-oneapi-dpcpp-system-requirements.html

Reviewer 4: We do not test these targets at the moment, so we should not include them in this list. This is subject to discussion and change in the future, but it is currently not tested.

> | Software             | Intel® oneAPI DPC++/C++ Compiler

Reviewer 5: shouldn't we mention that the Intel® Quartus® Prime suite is also a pre-requisite? If not, then I don't see any point in having a 'software pre-requisites' table. I see it in the note below but it feels kind of klunky.

```mermaid
flowchart LR
   tier1("Tier 1: Get Started")
   tier2("Tier 2: Explore the Fundamentals")
   tier3("Tier 3: Explore the Advanced Techniques")
   tier4("Tier 4: Explore the Reference Designs")

   tier1 --> tier2 --> tier3 --> tier4

   style tier1 fill:#0071c1,stroke:#0071c1,stroke-width:1px,color:#fff
   style tier2 fill:#f96,stroke:#333,stroke-width:1px,color:#fff
   style tier3 fill:#0071c1,stroke:#0071c1,stroke-width:1px,color:#fff
   style tier4 fill:#0071c1,stroke:#0071c1,stroke-width:1px,color:#fff
```

Find more information about how to navigate this part of the code samples in the [FPGA top-level README.md](/DirectProgramming/C++SYCL_FPGA/README.md).
You can also find more information about [troubleshooting build errors](/DirectProgramming/C++SYCL_FPGA/README.md#troubleshooting), [running the sample on the Intel® DevCloud](/DirectProgramming/C++SYCL_FPGA/README.md#build-and-run-the-samples-on-intel-devcloud-optional), [using Visual Studio Code with the code samples](/DirectProgramming/C++SYCL_FPGA/README.md#use-visual-studio-code-vs-code-optional), [links to selected documentation](/DirectProgramming/C++SYCL_FPGA/README.md#documentation), and more.

> ## Invocation Interface

Reviewer 4: I find it weird that the sample description starts with a topic that is not covered in this sample, should this section be moved below?

> The invocation interface is generated by the Intel® oneAPI DPC++/C++ Compiler and controls how your FPGA IP communicates with the rest of your system. This interface lets your wider system start the component, and lets the component inform the system when it is finished. There are two ways that the invocation interface can be implemented:

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
The invocation interface is generated by the Intel® oneAPI DPC++/C++ Compiler and controls how your FPGA IP communicates with the rest of your system. This interface lets your system start the component and (optionally) pass input arguments, and lets the component inform the system when it is finished. There are two ways that the invocation interface can be implemented:
```

1. As signals mapped to the IP's control/status register (CSR)
2. As a handshake similar to the ready/valid handshake used by streaming interfaces.

> Detailed explanation of invocation interfaces can be found in this dedicated [Invocation Interfaces](https://github.com/oneapi-src/oneAPI-samples/tree/master/DirectProgramming/C%2B%2BSYCL_FPGA/Tutorials/Features/experimental/invocation_interfaces) code sample.

Reviewer 5: this link can go in the 'handshake-control' sub-sample

### Register-mapped
The signals for starting your component, and the signals used by the component to signal its status are mapped to registers accessible through an Avalon memory-mapped agent interface. You should use a register-mapped invocation interface if your component will operate in a system like this:

![](assets/invocation_mm_agent.svg)

By default, the Intel® oneAPI DPC++/C++ Compiler generates a register-mapped invocation interface for kernels, as you may observe in the [Naive Design](naive).

### Streaming
The signals for starting your component and the signals used by the component to signal its status appear as dedicated conduits on your IP component. These signals mimic the ready-valid handshake commonly used by streaming interfaces. You should use a streaming invocation interface if your component will operate in a system like this:

![](assets/invocation_streaming.svg)

> The streaming handshaking follows the Avalon Streaming (ST) protocol. The IP kernel consumes the arguments on the clock cycle that the `start` and `ready_out` signals are asserted. The IP component kernel invocation is finished on the clock cycle that the `done` and `ready_in` signals are asserted.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
The streaming invocation handshake resembles an Avalon streaming transaction. The IP kernel begins operating on the clock cycle that the `start` and `ready_out` signals are asserted. The IP component kernel invocation is finished on the clock cycle that the `done` and `ready_in` signals are asserted.
```

> For detail on how to invoke a streaming invocation interface, go to [handshake-control](handshake-control)

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
For detail on how to configure a streaming invocation interface, go to [handshake-control](handshake-control)
```
you should rename 'handshake-control' to 'streaming-invocation' or something so that it isn't confusing.

## Data Interface

> The data interfaces allow data to enter and leave your component's data path. There are three kinds of data interface:

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
The data interfaces allow data to enter and leave your component's data path. SYCL* kernels do not have return types, so you must use one of the three data interfaces to pass output data.
There are three kinds of data interface:
```

### Stream (Pipe)
You may also choose to stream data into/out of your kernel using pipes. Pipes are a first-in first-out (FIFO) buffer construct that provide links between elements of a design. The Intel® oneAPI DPC++/C++ Compiler provides host pipes for host-kernel streaming and inter-kernel pipes for kernel-kernel streaming. The [host-pipes](host-pipes/) example demonstrates how to use host pipes to read and write data through an Avalon streaming interface that can be connected to other IP components in an FPGA design. 

![](assets/data_streaming.svg)

### Memory-Mapped Agent (Control/Status Register)
You may wish to register your data in a memory-mapped register space.

![](assets/data_mm_agent.svg)

There are two ways you can do this:
- Use (non-pointer) members of your functor. This is the default way to get data into your kernel as demonstrated in the [Naive Design](naive).

> - Use host pipes configured to use the `sycl::ext::intel::experimental::protocol_avalon_mm` protocol.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
- Use host pipes configured to use the `sycl::ext::intel::experimental::protocol_avalon_mm` protocol. Please review the [csr-pipes](csr-pipes/) example design.
```

> oneAPI kernels do not have return types, so you must use one of the three data interfaces to pass output data. If you would like to store your output in the CSR for a memory-mapped host device to access (as shown in the graphic above), please review the [csr-pipes](csr-pipes/) example design.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
```

## Sample Structure
There are 5 different example designs in this sample, all of which implement a simple vector addition. You can compare the C++ source code for each of these designs.
1. [Naive](naive/) This simple vector add implementation is similar to the one presented in the [fpga_compile](https://github.com/oneapi-src/oneAPI-samples/tree/master/DirectProgramming/C%2B%2BSYCL_FPGA/Tutorials/GettingStarted/fpga_compile) code sample. It demonstrates a kernel that uses a register-mapped invocation interface, and a single shared memory-mapped host data interface. This is the only design that can support the full-system compilation flow, since the other designs implement interface customizations that are not supported by any BSP.

> 2. [Streaming invocation](handshake-control/) This implementation uses a streaming invocation interface and conduits to pass the input pointer arguments instead of the CSR. It uses a single, shared memory-mapped host data interface.

Reviewer 5: please rename the handshake-control directory to 'streaming-invocation'

3. [Customized memory-mapped host data interface](mm-host/) This implementation uses a register-mapped invocation interface, and demonstrates how to use `annotated_arg` to customize the memory-mapped host data interface.

> 4. [Streaming Data (host pipes)](host-pipes/) This implementation uses a register-mapped invocation interface, and demonstrates how to use host pipes to configure a streaming data interface.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
4. [Streaming Data (pipes)](host-pipes/) This implementation uses a register-mapped invocation interface, and demonstrates how to use pipes to configure a streaming data interface.
```

please rename the directory to pipes

5. [CSR Data](csr-pipes/) This implementation uses a register-mapped invocation interface, and demonstrates how to use host pipes to configure a streaming data interface, and how to return output into the CSR using the `protocol_avalon_mm` pipe protocol.

> All designs support four compilation options: Emulator, Simulator, Optimization Report, FPGA Hardware. For details on the different compilation options, see [fpga_compile](https://github.com/oneapi-src/oneAPI-samples/tree/master/DirectProgramming/C%2B%2BSYCL_FPGA/Tutorials/GettingStarted/fpga_compile) tutorial.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
```

unnecessary

> For detailed instructions on how build and run each design, see the documentation under each design's directory.

Reviewer 4: Because these all share the same build instructions, I think that I'd prefer you having a top level cmake file that selects which sources to use, depending on the options given to cmake.
e.g. cmake .. -DTYPE=[NAIVE/CSR/HANDSHAKE/HOSTPIPES/MMHOST] 

Your top level cmake would have something like this:
```
if(${TYPE} MATCHES NAIVE)
  add_src(naive)
else if(${TYPE} MATCHES CSR)
  add_src(csr-pipes)
...
```

This way, all the build instructions are in this README.

Similarly, I think that I'd prefer all the sublevel README instructions be in this README. I'd rather have one place to compare everything rather than having to go a change folders back and forth to realize which one fits better my application.

Reviewer 5: @yuguen-intel  Why do you want a single top-level cmake file? I think multiple CMake files makes for better consistency, since each sub-sample can act as its own independent mini-project.

I similarly think that putting all the descriptions for each of the sub-projects together in the top-level readme would make it too long. Split up into pieces, it's easier to digest.

Reviewer 4: It avoids the need for doing:
- `cd project 1` 
- `mkdir build`
- `cd build`
- `cmake .. `
- ...
- `cd ../../project 2`
- `mkdir build`
- `cd build`
- `cmake ..`
- ...

one can simply do:
- `mkdir build`
- `cd build`
- `cmake .. -DTYPE=PROJECT1`
- ...
- `cmake .. -DTYPE=PROJECT2`
- ...

This is how other samples that have multiple subprojects are configured

+ all of these cmake files are exactly identical, there could be a single one which just selects different source code.

Reviewer 4: More generally, I think we should discuss where to put all of these new interface samples
It sounds like this is an overview, but William made a detailed one, and we may do more in the future.

So we should think ahead a plan for a nice structure.

We may want a new ipa_interfaces folder, which could contain this nice README, and then multiple individual samples such as the one William wrote, the host pipes one, etc.

Reviewer 5: @yuguen-intel and I discussed these last week; I am also convinced that this is the way (i.e.
1. an ipa_interfaces directory under `features` that contains this and other IPA tutorials
2. modify the CMake file to select the different c++ file depending on a compile flag

Author: for number 1. should I be re-grouping the code samples in my PR?

Reviewer 5: no, as we discussed just move yours and the others will follow
